Create documentation for CI providers deployments (#21200)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/continuous_delivery/deployments/ciproviders.md

---
title: Monitor CI Providers Deployments
kind: documentation
description: Learn how to monitor deployments from CI Providers in Datadog CD Visibility.
is_beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "/continuous_delivery/deployments"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Deployment Visibility"
- link: "/continuous_delivery/explorer"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to query and visualize deployment executions"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">CD Visibility is not available in the selected site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}) at this time.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

{{< callout url="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScNhFEUOndGHwBennvUp6-XoA9luTc27XBwtSgXhycBVFM9yA/viewform?usp=sf_link" header="false" >}}
CD Visibility for CI providers deployments is in private beta. To request access, complete the form.
{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

> Deployments can also be performed within continuous integration pipelines. Typically, these pipelines have a deployment step that is executed after the source code has been tested and the image has been built.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Deployments][12] can be performed in your continuous integration (CI) pipelines. Typically, these pipelines have a deployment step that is executed after the source code is tested and the image is built.
```

> If you are executing deployments through a CI provider, you can monitor your deployments with CD Visibility if the following requirements are met:
> 1. You are using [Pipeline Visibility][1] to monitor your CI pipelines.
> 2. Your CI provider supports the "Custom tags and metrics at runtime" feature. You can check this in the [supported features table][2].
> 3. You are executing deployments in a CI job (or [related level][9] in your CI provider).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are executing deployments using a CI provider, you can monitor your deployments with CD Visibility if the following requirements are met:

1. You are using [Pipeline Visibility][1] to monitor your CI pipelines.
2. Your CI provider supports the **Custom tags and metrics at runtime** feature. For more details, see the [supported features table][2].
3. You are executing deployments in a CI job (or [related level][9] in your CI provider).
```

## Setup

<div class="alert alert-info">

> The setup requires the <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@datadog/datadog-ci"> <code>datadog-ci</code> CLI </a> with version `2.26.0` or later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The setup requires the <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@datadog/datadog-ci"> <code>datadog-ci</code> CLI </a> version <code>2.26.0</code> or later.
```

</div>

> To set up CD Visibility, use the `datadog-ci deployment mark` command inside the CI job that is performing the deployment. Two environment variables are required:
> 1. `DD_API_KEY`: Point to your [Datadog API key][4].
> 2. `DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED`: Set to 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up CD Visibility, use the `datadog-ci deployment mark` command inside the CI job that is performing the deployment. 

Two environment variables are required:

* `DD_API_KEY`: Point to your [Datadog API key][4].
* `DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED`: Set to 1.
```

> Optionally, you can point the `DD_SITE` environment variable to a specific [Datadog site][3] (default value is `datadoghq.com`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally, you can point the `DD_SITE` environment variable to a specific [Datadog site][3] (the default value is `datadoghq.com`).
```

You can enrich the deployment event that is generated by the `datadog-ci deployment mark` command using the following parameters:
- `--env`: the environment to which this deployment is performed. For example, `prod`.

> - `--revision`: the revision/version that is being deployed. For example, `1.0.0` or `v123-456`.

Reviewer 2: should it match the `version` tag that is used elsewhere in Datadog?

Author: For now that's not the case, it's called `deployment.revision.value`. We already discussed about this, and in case in future we can introduce the `version` field as well

> - `--env`: the environment to which this deployment is performed. For example, `prod`.
> - `--revision`: the revision/version that is being deployed. For example, `1.0.0` or `v123-456`.
> - `--is-rollback` specifies that the deployment is a rollback.
> - `--tags` is an array of key value pairs in the format `key:value`. These tags are added to the deployment event shown in Datadog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

| Parameter | Description |
|---|---|
| `--env` | The environment to which this deployment is performed. For example, `prod`. |
| `--revision` | The revision or version that is being deployed. For example, `1.0.0` or `v123-456`. |
| `--is-rollback` | Specifies that the deployment is a rollback. |
| `--tags` | An array of key-value pairs in the `key:value` format. These tags are added to the deployment event shown in Datadog. |
```

> Use `--no-fail` (default: `false`) to prevent the deployment command from failing if there are issues submitting the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `--no-fail` (default: `false`) to prevent the deployment command from failing if there are issues submitting the data.
```

Author: Mmm what did you want to suggest?

Reviewer: I'm not sure, gonna close this one!

> Once you have added the command to a CI job, the [**Deployments**][5] and [**Deployment Executions**][6] pages populate with data after pipelines are executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have added the command to a CI job, the [**Deployments**][5] and [**Deployment Executions** pages][6] populate with data after pipelines are executed.
```

Author: I think "pages" refer to both Deployments and Deployment Executions so I would leave it outside of the link perhaps? Also to be consistent with the current [ArgoCD docs](https://docs.datadoghq.com/continuous_delivery/deployments/argocd#visualize-deployments-in-datadog)

Reviewer: Are you ok with referring to the Deployment Executions page as the CD Visibility Explorer?

> For more information, see [Search and Manage][7] and [CD Visibility Explorer][8].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Search and Manage Deployments][7] and the [CD Visibility Explorer documentation][8].
```

### Examples

> Specify that the CI job executes a deployment to the `prod` environment of version `1.0.0`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This set of commands specifies that the CI job executes a deployment to the `prod` environment on version `1.0.0`:
```

Author: Changed! Only minor thing that I preferred "with version" instead of "of version". Does that look good to you?

```shell
export DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED=1
export DD_API_KEY="<YOUR_API_KEY>"
export DD_SITE={{< region-param key="dd_site" >}}

datadog-ci deployment mark --env prod --revision 1.0.0
```

> Specify that the CI job performs a rollback deployment to the `prod` environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This set of commands specifies that the CI job performs a rollback deployment to the `prod` environment:
```

```shell
export DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED=1
export DD_API_KEY="<YOUR_API_KEY>"
export DD_SITE={{< region-param key="dd_site" >}}

datadog-ci deployment mark --env prod --is-rollback
```

> Specify that the CI job executes a deployment to the `prod` environment and add the `team:backend` and the `reason:scheduled` tags to the deployment event:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This set of commands specifies that the CI job executes a deployment to the `prod` environment and adds the `team:backend` and `reason:scheduled` tags to the deployment event:
```

```shell
export DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED=1
export DD_API_KEY="<YOUR_API_KEY>"
export DD_SITE={{< region-param key="dd_site" >}}

datadog-ci deployment mark --env prod --tags team:backend --tags reason:scheduled
```

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/
[2]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/#supported-features
[3]: /getting_started/site/
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
[5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/deployments
[6]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/deployments/executions
[7]: /continuous_delivery/search
[8]: /continuous_delivery/explorer

> [9]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/#terminology

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[9]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/#terminology
[10]: /continuous_delivery/deployments
```

Optionally, you can point the `DD_SITE` environment variable to a specific [Datadog site][3] (default value is `datadoghq.com`).

You can enrich the deployment event that is generated by the `datadog-ci deployment mark` command using the following parameters:
- `--env`: the environment to which this deployment is performed. For example, `prod`.
- `--revision`: the revision/version that is being deployed. For example, `1.0.0` or `v123-456`.
- `--is-rollback` specifies that the deployment is a rollback.
- `--tags` is an array of key value pairs in the format `key:value`. These tags are added to the deployment event shown in Datadog.

Use `--no-fail` (default: `false`) to prevent the deployment command from failing if there are issues submitting the data.

Once you have added the command to a CI job, the [**Deployments**][5] and [**Deployment Executions**][6] pages populate with data after pipelines are executed.
For more information, see [Search and Manage][7] and [CD Visibility Explorer][8].

### Examples

Specify that the CI job executes a deployment to the `prod` environment of version `1.0.0`:

```shell
export DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED=1
export DD_API_KEY="<YOUR_API_KEY>"

> 

Reviewer 2: do you have a possibility to set the `DD_SITE` automatically depending on which site the customer has selected?

Author: We do it in Quality Gates, I have pushed a commit that should do it

Author: Confirmed that it works
